# One

## The State of the Art

- self-driving vehicles
- automatic speech recognition
- space missions are scheduled and planned by intelligent agents
- intelligent agents are better than humans at many games
- intelligent agents capture 80% [or more] of spam emails
- military deployments are planned and scheduled by AI
- machine translations of human language are usuable day-to-day

## Mindset

* Shall we mode humans or work from an ideal standard?
* Intelligence is mainly concerned with _rational action_
* An AI should the the "best" possible action [in a given situtaion]
* {MWC} Really, AI is not about creating 'minds' but a whole new abstraction for creating computational systems

## Driving Factors

- Math ~ calculus and probability are essential for even the barest understanding of these techniques
- Economics ~ formalized decision-making and analyzing decisions
- Philosophy ~ gave a programmatic paradigm for thought and logic
- Neuroscience ~ uncovered nautral solutions to computation
- Engineering ~ modern AI requires modern-scale computing platforms
- Control Theory


## IMOW

1.1:
- Intelligence = the ability to compose a solution to a problem when not everything is known about the problem-space
- Artificial Intelligence = legitimate ascription of the property of 'intelligent' to a system created by humans
- Agent = a system acting on behalf of another
- Rationality = the extent to which an action can be justified based on its fulfillment of logical processes
- Logical Reasoning = drawing a conclusion/answer/publishment from atomic mathematical operations

1.2:
Most of his arguments are still valid; though, there is a perennial expansion of abstraction that did not invade the scholarly mind of the day.
There is more real evidence that consciuousness cannot be had via computation.  Many of the arguments he presents are not mere algorithmic matters.
The Turing test is said to have been "passed" - but only by injecting presuppositions into the "testers".  I don't think 50yrs will present us an unimpeachable interaction, there will always be characterstic "tells" that distinguish an electronic thinker.

1.3:
Instinctive or reflex actions might be said to "close to the metal" in computing equivalence.
They are still nervous system imputations but could, perhaps, be considered _intelligent_ because they are teachable and learnable.

1.4:
No, just because you learn that Guta wrote "Faust" by taking the IQ test doesn't mean that you've gained intelligence.
If we had multiple IQ tests that were passed then perhaps...but, even then, some advanced IQ tests require a physical interaction...

1.5:
The _Aplysia_ would be abyssmal at calculations - but outprove even modern [2018] computers in higher-level, abstract thinking.

1.6:
This reminds me of "overfitting".
In order to learn and grow must just as surely prune connections as make new ones.

1.7:
- Bar-code scanners are very narrow but manage to intake coded data in somewhat austere circumstances.  They also communicate with product databases to varying extents.
- Web search engines have to glean metadata and even construct it to be effective.  In addition recording and retrieving user preferences, especially non-personal (i.e. non-tracking), provides a necessarily broader "intellect".

1.8:
I would guess that more people know how computers work at a low-level than know how their own bodies work.
I also surmise that no one knows the true nature of the human mind & soul.
So, the term 'vision' is, indeed, a conflation and amalgamation of technologies that enable much higher levels of thought while not requiring knowledge of [or wisdom about] their lower-level working.

1.9:
My worldview presupposes an inference toward the creator in every creation.
This seems to be true in any sense because even the materialist infuses the goals of pleasure and immortality (often through recollection of others) into their nexus of thought.
Rationality is almost a foregone conclusion if the roots of everything are based on ordered rules of information.  Rationality is then an outgrowth of the mathematical nature of everything.

1.10:
I would engineer, of course I'm biased that direction...
Modern data-science and AI is the culmination of rigorous mathematical systems on top of hefty computers.
Science is more of a process of discovery.  It could be said that testing and discovery of new methods for AI is science of AI is, in fact, the implementation of such methods.

1.11:
Computers can, indeed, only do what their programmers tell them...
But programmers can tell them to do higher-order computation and do, at times, unknowingly, unintentionally induce faults.

1.12:
Genes are merely the patterns by which the mini-computers which implement the processes of life are represented.
DNA is many orders higher than our typical software but is still a computational data platform.  Thus, it allows for much abstraction which is governed by the framework.

1.13:
Regardless of whether the constituent parts are simpler or more complex at lower-levels it is the pattern of their combinations that matters.
Laws of physics and mathematical truths govern the possibiltiies but do not enforce or cause intelligence.
So, I think a human is not intelligent because of the construction of their body but because of the spirit...an obfuscation which serves to mask our misunderstanding of our true nature.

1.14:
a. Table tennis - yes
b. Driving in Cairo - no; I suspect places like this will become automated quickly once feasible automation is available because
c. Driving CA - yes
d. Buying groceries in person - meh; AI will likely drive new paradigms in personal shopping...as well as continue to kill box-stores
e. Buying groceries online - yes
f. Playing bridge competitively - yes?
g. Making math - proofs, yes; discovery, meh (in certain domains); probably won't ever be able to discover novel ideas
h. Writing humor - very limited; depends on the audience...requires much higher-order thinking
i. Giving competent legal advice - yes
j. Real-time spoken translation - yes
k. Complex surgery - no; yes, need a lot more anatomical examples for automation

1.15:
The robotics progress is impressive...the driving software appears to be formulaic (but I don't know that for certain.)
I don't think there's a downside to this type of AI progress - the trickle-down is very real (as evidenced by sports medicine.)
