Transitioning from one "who uses mathematics to [one] who understands mathematics."

"We have all heard students say (sometimes,
remarkably, even with pride) that they are not good at mathematics."

"To have done well on an exam with little or no studying is nothing to be proud of."


1. Never start a sentence with a symbol.
2. Separate symbols [not in a list] by words [if possible]
3. (Except when discussing logic) avoid writing the following symbols in your assignment:  ⇒, ∀, ∃, etc.
4. Avoid using i.e. and e.g.; write out "that is" and "for example" instead.
5. Write out integers when they are used as adjectives.  Write out integers numerically when they are used as values.
6. Don't mixin symbols with words.
7. Avoid using symbols within a statement.
8. Explain every symbol you introduce.
9. Use "frozen" or "traditional" symbols properly.
10. Use consistent symbols, and use symbols consistently.

"Mathematics is not a spectator sport."

Writing:
1. Use good English; no sentence begins with a symbol
2. Capitalize "theorem" and "lemma"
3. No need to hypenate "nonempty", "nonnegative", etc.
4. Double-check spelling; commutative, complement, consistent, feasible, its (possessive), occurrence, parallel, principle (postulate, regulation), proceed, corollary, lemma, theorem

Canonical Sets
  N ~ natural numbers (positive integers)
  Z ~ integers
  Q ~ rational numbers
  I ~ irrational numbers
  R ~ real numbers
  C ~ complex numbers

!?!
Under example 1.2:
  "A set S is finite if |S| = n for some nonnegative integer n.  A set S is infinite if it is not finite."
  * In this case can't 'n' be infinity? doesn't N contain an infinity?
  * If nil = 0 then why is the cardinality of |nil| = 1?

1.3
  D = {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8}
  E!D[:3] = {2.5, 3.5, 4.5}
  H = {sqrt(2), -sqrt(2)}
  J = {x E Q : x E R} == {nil}
  |D| = 9
  |E| = infinity
  |H| = 2
  |J| = 0


Exercises
1.1) d, e
1.2) 
  a) A = {X E N : X > 0 and X < 4}
  b) B = {X E N : X >= 0 and X <= 3}
  c) C = {X E Z : X > -3 and X < 0}
  d) D = {X E Z : X == -2 or X == 2 or X == 3}
1.3) 
  a) 5
  b) 11
  c) 50
  d) 2
  e) 0
  f) 2
1.4)
  a) {-3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4}
  b) {1, 2}
  c) {1, 2, 3, 4}
  d) {1}
  e) {1}
1.5)
  a) {x E Z : x < 0}
  b) {x E Z : -3 >= x <= 3}
  c) {x E Z : -3 < x < 3; |x| E Z}
1.6)
  a) {..., 3, 2, 1, 0, -1, -2, -3, ...}
  b) {..., 12, 8, 4, 0, -4, -8, -12, ...}
  c) {..., 10, 7, 4, 1, -2, -5, -8, ...}
1.7)
  a) A = {y= : x E Z}  {..., -4, -1, 2, 5, 8, ...}
  b) B = {y=5x : x E Z} {..., -10, -5, 0, 5, 10}
  c) C = {y=x^2 : x E N > 0} {1, 8, 27, 64, 125, ...}
1.8)
  a) A = {-4, -3, -2, 2, 3, 4}
  b) 0.5, 1.5, 2.5
  c) C = {-2, 2}
  d) D = {-2, 2}
  e) |A| = 6
     |C| = 2
     |D| = 2
1.9) A = {2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 10, 13}
     B = {x E A : x = y + z;  y, z E A}
       = {2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, ...}
     C = {r E B : r + s E B, s E B}
       ((r + s) in B) where (s in B)
       = {x E N; N > 1}

e.g. 1.5)
  A = {1,2,3}
  B = {{1,2,3}, 1, 2, 3}

e.g. 1.6)
  A = {1,3,4}
  B = {1,2,5}
